5 Modules
File Module
This module prompts the user to select a particular location within the system, a location from 
which the user wants to extract the data from the files present in that particular directory.

Extraction Module
This module is responsible for extracting data from the files of different types from the location 
mentioned by the user through the File Module. The module checks the type of each file using 
a for each method. After confirming the file type, the module applies the specified technique 
for data extraction as mentioned in its workflow. For e.g., OCR Engine method for extracting 
data from PDF and Image files, REGEX for extracting data from text file or xml files or json 
files and using Excel methods (present in UI Path) to extract data from excel files. After 
extracting the data from the file using the file specific technique for data extraction the 
workflow/module stores all the data extracted in a unified excel workbook for further data 
loading.

Loader Module. 
This module is responsible for migration data from the unified excel 
workbook to the cloud storage via a web portal interface which is hostel online/locally. Using 
Excel workbook read activities (UI Path) the module reads the data row wise and stores it inside 
a data table variable. Using Web Recording activities (UI Path) the module loads the data 
present in the data table variable under the specified tag into the web portal which uses MySQL 
database as its backend. The web portal uses HTML5, CSS3 and ExpressJS for its frontend and 
backend consists of MySQL database applied using NodeJS. The module first opens the web 
portal in the browser application and first identifies the label and enters the appropriate data 
from the data table variable in the input form under each label and once all input forms are 
filled the submit button clicked. On clicking the button, the inputted data is converted into an 
RDBMS insert query by ExpressJS and is sent to the database for insertion, similar steps are 
followed for record searching process. Hence the module iterates through all the excel data 
ranges and transfers the data to cloud storage via the web portal with the help of Web Recording 
functionality of UI Path. 




